---
# Page title
title: Teaching Philosophy
# Page type - we want a landing page (such as a homepage)
type: landing

# Your landing page sections - add as many different content blocks as you like
sections:
  - block: markdown
    id: tp-1
    content:
      # title: Teaching Philosophy
      # text: The 3Rs: A Framework for Engaged Learning
      
      I see teaching as a collaborative process, where my role as an
instructor is both to guide and to learn alongside my students. While I
bring structure and direction to the learning experience, I believe that
students themselves are the drivers of their educational journey. To
support this, my teaching is rooted in three core principles:
reciprocity, responsiveness, and reflection. These principles reflect my
commitment to creating a dynamic, student-centered classroom where
learning flows in multiple directions, adapting to students’ needs and
encouraging them to critically engage with the material.

I implement these principles through the Writing Across the Curriculum
framework, which emphasizes writing to learn and learning to write
.Writing to learn uses writing as a tool for reflection and critical
thinking, while learning to write equips students to communicate complex
ideas. Writing fosters reciprocity through peer feedback, enhances
responsiveness by revealing student understanding, and promotes
reflection by encouraging students to critically evaluate their work.
Through the Writing-Integrated Teaching program, I received specialized
training on integrating writing practices into course instruction. As
Lead Writing TA for the Department of Economics, I helped instructors
design writing assignments and rubrics that enhanced student learning. I
applied these same concepts in my own intermediate microeconomics course
to create a more engaging and reflective learning experience.

In addition to writing exercises, I exemplify these principles through
exit surveys, where students provide feedback on course content and
identify areas for improvement. I also use review videos to offer
alternative explanations for difficult concepts that students themselves
identify. These strategies help create a student-centered, adaptive
learning environment where students actively participate in their
education.

Reciprocity: Fostering Collaborative Learning

Reciprocity involves placing students at the center of the learning
process, creating a multidirectional flow of knowledge between students,
the instructor, and peers. A meta-analysis of cooperative learning
demonstrates that this approach leads to higher academic achievement,
improved reasoning, and stronger interpersonal connections compared to
individualistic methods . In my microeconomic theory class, I introduced
a case on Mexican drug cartels entering opium-growing areas in response
to increased heroin demand , to illustrate how the potential for profits
incentivizes market entry. Students were excited by this example and
requested more crime-related topics in exit surveys, which led me to
incorporate similar examples into future lectures.

I also use Piazza, an online discussion platform where students post
questions and respond to their peers. This peer-to-peer interaction
helps students deepen their understanding by explaining concepts to each
other. Teaching assistants and I endorse correct answers and intervene
only when necessary. This process fosters a collaborative learning
environment, where students actively contribute to and shape each
other’s understanding of course material.

Responsiveness: Meeting Students Where They Are

Responsiveness in teaching involves adapting strategies to meet diverse
student needs. One way I engage students is through my use of
differentiated instruction, a teaching approach that tailors content,
processes, and products to accommodate students’ varying learning
preferences and abilities​ . In response to feedback from exit surveys,
where students expressed that they learn effectively through listening
and requested lecture recordings, I not only made these recordings
available but also considered how I could apply this feedback to other
elements of the course. This inspired my use of a podcast as the basis
for the course’s writing assignment. The assignment was based on the
popular Canadaland: Commons podcast, which explored monopoly power in
Canada, students analyzed the control that Cineplex, a dominant player
in the Canadian film market, exerts over the industry. Using principles
of market power and monopsony, students combined information from the
podcast with theoretical insights from class models to assess Cineplex’s
impact on competition, prices, and quality. This task connected economic
theory to a real-world scenario students were familiar with but had not
yet examined through an economic lens.

Research supports the effectiveness of audio-based learning,
particularly for students with diverse needs such as English Language
Learners or those with learning disabilities, by improving comprehension
and retention through multisensory experiences​ ​. By integrating auditory
content, I created a more inclusive learning environment, catering to
auditory learners and making abstract concepts more relatable and
engaging for all students.

Responsiveness involves adapting teaching strategies to meet the diverse
needs of students. One way I engage students is through my use of
differentiated instruction. assignments that connect economic theory to
real-world scenarios they are already familiar with but do not yet
understand through an economic lens. In a writing assignment based on
the Canadaland: Commons podcast, which explored monopoly power in
Canada, students were tasked with analyzing the control that Cineplex, a
dominant player in the Canadian film market, exerts over the industry.
Using principles of market power and monopsony, students combined
information from the podcast about the industry with theoretical
insights from the models discussed in class to assess how Cineplex’s
control affected competition, prices, and quality in the Canadian film
market.

Students were asked to write from the perspective of a Junior Economist
at the Competition Bureau of Canada, which gave them a glimpse into the
types of tasks economists perform daily in real-world jobs, helping them
see the practical applications of economic theory. One student was so
engaged by the assignment that they listened to the entire podcast
series and enrolled in industrial organization courses to learn about
related issues.

Another example of responsiveness is my use of review videos, which I
create after every class to address the specific concepts students
identify as difficult, as identified through the exit surveys. By
presenting these topics in different ways or providing them additional
resources, such as YouTube videos or news articles that demonstrate the
principles in action, I ensure that students have multiple opportunities
to engage with and master the material. This approach allows me to
tailor my teaching in ways that make complex economic concepts more
accessible to a wide range of learners.

To ensure cultural relevance, I extend discussions of policy
implications to their effects on equity-deserving groups. For example,
in my discussion of the minimum wage, I introduced research by , which
shows how the introduction of the Federal Minimum Wage reduced racial
earnings inequality. This approach aligns with the principles of
culturally responsive teaching, as outlined by , who argues that when
students see their own experiences and identities reflected in the
content, they are more likely to engage with the material and view the
field as relevant to their lives. By integrating these perspectives, I
aim to increase engagement and make economics more accessible and
attractive to students from underrepresented groups, ultimately
contributing to greater diversity within the profession.

Reflection: Encouraging Growth and Critical Thinking

Reflection is crucial in encouraging students to think critically and
engage deeply with the material. I use scaffolding to break down
assignments into smaller tasks, helping students build their
understanding progressively. Scaffolding improves cognitive processing
by guiding students through complex tasks in stages, fostering mastery
over time . My optional rewrite process exemplifies this approach by
allowing students to revise and resubmit their work after receiving
feedback. To qualify for an improved grade, students must make
substantial changes to their original submission, encouraging them to
reflect critically on their work and address gaps in their
understanding. This iterative process emphasizes that learning is not a
one-time assessment, but an ongoing journey.

An example of the reflection principle in action is seen in the writing
to learn aspect of my assignments. In one task, students were required
to explain Cineplex’s market behavior using economic principles in a way
that was accessible to non-economists. This task reinforced their
understanding of economic concepts by requiring them to translate
complex ideas into simpler language, ensuring they could explain key
concepts beyond mere memorization. This approach prepares students for
future cross-functional roles where clear communication is essential and
cultivates a habit of reflection on how economic models apply in
real-world contexts.

In summary, my teaching philosophy centers on the 3Rs: reciprocity,
responsiveness, and reflection. These principles allow me to create a
learning environment where students actively engage with economic
theory, connect it to real-world applications, and continuously refine
their understanding through critical thinking. By employing strategies
like writing to learn, scaffolding, and culturally relevant examples, I
aim to foster a dynamic, student-centered classroom that encourages
intellectual growth and prepares students for both academic and
professional success.

---
